<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [handleSuccess][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [Examples][3]
-   [handleFailure][4]
    -   [Parameters][5]
    -   [Examples][6]
-   [handleResponse][7]
    -   [Parameters][8]
    -   [Examples][9]
-   [setOnSuccess][10]
    -   [Parameters][11]
    -   [Examples][12]
-   [setOnFailure][13]
    -   [Parameters][14]
    -   [Examples][15]
-   [setOnResponse][16]
    -   [Parameters][17]
    -   [Examples][18]
-   [LP_API][19]
    -   [Examples][20]
-   [createRequest][21]
    -   [Parameters][22]
    -   [Examples][23]
-   [middleware][24]
    -   [Actions][25]
    -   [Middleware configuration][26]
-   [reducer][27]
    -   [Examples][28]
-   [requestWithKey][29]
    -   [Parameters][30]
    -   [Examples][31]
-   [selectors][32]
    -   [Examples][33]
-   [setFromRequest][34]
    -   [Parameters][35]
    -   [Examples][36]
-   [stubRequest][37]
    -   [Parameters][38]
    -   [Examples][39]

## handleSuccess

A function that takes an API action handler and only applies that handler when the request succeeds.

### Parameters

-   `handler` **[Function][40]** An action handler that is passed `state`, `action` and `data` params

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: handleSuccess((state, action) => {
     // This code only runs when the call was successful
     return set('currentUser', action.payload.data, state)
   })
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler that runs when a request is successful

## handleFailure

A function that takes an API action handler and only applies that handler when the request fails.

### Parameters

-   `handler` **[Function][40]** An action handler that is passed `state`, `action` and `data` params

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: handleFailure((state, action) => {
     // This code only runs when the call was unsuccessful
     return set('userFetchError', action.payload.error, state)
   })
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler that runs when a request is unsuccessful

## handleResponse

A function that takes two API action handlers, one for successful requests and one for failed requests,
and applies the handlers when the responses have the correct status.

### Parameters

-   `successHandler` **[Function][40]** An action handler that is passed `state`, `action` and `data` params
-   `failureHandler` **[Function][40]** An action handler that is passed `state`, `action` and `data` params

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: handleResponse(
     (state, action) => {
       // This code runs if the call is successful
       return set('currentUser', action.payload.data, state)
     },
     (state, action) => {
       // This code runs if the call is unsuccessful
       return set('userFetchError', action.payload.error, state)
     },
   )
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler runs the handler that corresponds to the request status

## setOnSuccess

A function that creates an API action handler that sets a path in the state with the returned data if a request succeeds.

### Parameters

-   `path` **[String][41]** The path in the state to set with the returned data
-   `transform` **[Function][40]?** A function that determines the data that is set in the state. Passed `action` and `state` params.

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   // This will do the same thing as the example for handleSuccess
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: setOnSuccess('currentSuccess')
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler that runs when a request is unsuccessful

## setOnFailure

A function that creates an API action handler that sets a path in the state with the returned error if a request fails.

### Parameters

-   `path` **[String][41]** The path in the state to set with the returned error
-   `transform` **[Function][40]?** A function that determines the data that is set in the state. Passed `action` and `state` params.

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   // This will do the same thing as the example for handleFailure
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: setOnFailure('userFetchError')
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler that runs when a request is successful

## setOnResponse

A function that creates an API action handler that sets one of two given paths in the state with the returned data depending on whether a request succeeds or fails.

### Parameters

-   `path` **[String][41]** The path in the state to set with the returned data on success
-   `path` **[String][41]** The path in the state to set with the returned error on failure
-   `transform` **[Function][40]?** A function that determines the success data that is set in the state. Passed `action` and `state` params.
-   `transform` **[Function][40]?** A function that determines the error data that is set in the state. Passed `action` and `state` params.

### Examples

```javascript
handleActions({
   // This will do the same thing as the example for handleResponse
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: setOnResponse('currentUser', 'userFetchError')
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action handler

## LP_API

A unique key that identifies dispatched actions to be handled by the LP
Redux Api middleware. This is implemented as a Symbol, instead of a String
to guarantee uniqueness.

The params provided as the value include anything that is supported by
[LP Redux Api Middleware][24]

Type: [Symbol][42]

### Examples

```javascript
// An example action creator
function fooAction () {
  return {
    [LP_API]: {
      url: 'http://foo.com/posts',
      requestAction: 'REQUEST', 
      successAction: 'SUCCESS', 
      failureAction: 'FAILURE',
    }
  }
}
```

## createRequest

A function that creates action creators for making API requests, much like [createAction][43] from `redux-actions`.

Note: there are convenience functions for each request method: `createPostRequest()`, `createPutRequest()`, etc.

### Parameters

-   `type` **[String][41]** A unique key that will be used to identify the request internally in redux
-   `definition` **([Object][44] \| [Function][40])** An object of `lp-request` config options, or a function that returns config options.

### Examples

```javascript
export const fetchUser = createRequest('FETCH_USER', (id) => ({
  url: '/users/' + id,
}))

fetchUsers(5)
// -> will make request to /users/5

// Just like in redux-actions, this action can be referenced in a reducer by name:

handleActions({
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: (state, action) => ...
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action creator that passes its arguments to `definition` and makes the resulting API request.

## middleware

### Actions

At a high level, `lp-redux-api` actions contain the following information:

-   The URL of an API request to execute
-   Any extra request details
-   One or many actions to dispatch based on the status of the request

These actions are keyed using the [LP_API][19] symbol so that the middleware knows to handle them. Here's an example of a simple action creator:

    import { LP_API } from '@launchpadlab/lp-redux-api'

    export function fetchUser (id) {
      return {
        [LP_API]: {
          url: `users/${id}`,
          requestAction: 'USER_REQUEST', 
          successAction: 'USER_SUCCESS', 
          failureAction: 'USER_FAILURE',
          ... any more configuration options 
        },
      }
    }

When this action is dispatched to the store, the middleware will take over and:

-   Dispatch a `USER_REQUEST` action
-   Perform the api request to `/users`
-   Dispatch a `USER_SUCCESS` action with the response payload if the api request is successful
-   Dispatch a `USER_FAILURE` action with the error payload if the api request fails

Actions can be defined in the following ways:

-   As an action type `string` (shown above)
-   As an action `object`
-   As an action creator `function` - will get passed the success/error response as modified by `successDataPath` and `failureDataPath` (see below)

### Middleware configuration

In order to use `lp-redux-api` actions, you must apply the custom middleware to your store when the store is created:

    import { middleware as apiMiddleware } from '@launchpadlab/lp-redux-api'
    const apiConfig = { ... }
    const middleware = applyMiddleware(
       apiMiddleware(apiConfig),
       ...
    )
    const store = createStore(reducer, initialState, middleware)

The following options can be used to configure the middleware:

-   `onUnauthorized` (default=`null`): An action creator to be called and dispatched when the server rejects a request with a status of `unauthorized`.
-   `successDataPath`: A path to response data that will be passed as the success action's payload
-   `failureDataPath`: A path to response data that will be passed as the failure action's payload
-   any options used by the lp-requests [http][45] module

## reducer

Stores the status of API requests in your state.
Statuses are stored for all requests with a `requestKey` (including those created by [requestWithKey][29]),
and can be retrieved by using [selectStatus][46].

To use this reducer, add it to `combineReducers()` under the `api` key. You can use a different key if you'd like,
but you will need to reference it explicitly when using [selectStatus][46].

Type: [Function][40]

### Examples

```javascript
// When creating store, attach reducer

import { reducer as apiReducer } from 'lp-redux-api'

combineReducers({ 
  api: apiReducer,
  ...
})

// Now you can keep track of request status elsewhere in your app

import { requestKey, selectStatus } from 'lp-redux-api'

const REQ_FETCH_USERS = 'REQ_FETCH_USERS'
dispatch(requestWithKey(REQ_FETCH_USERS, { url: '/users' }))

selectStatus(REQ_FETCH_USERS, state) // -> 'loading'

*
```

## requestWithKey

An action creator that automatically adds a requestKey and default actions to your request.
These default actions can then be picked up by [setFromRequest][34].

Default actions are dynamically named using the key provided, like so:

-   `<requestKey>_REQUEST`
-   `<requestKey>_SUCCESS`
-   `<requestKey>_FAILURE`

### Parameters

-   `requestKey` **[String][41]** A unique key that you can use to reference your request in [setFromRequest][34] or [selectStatus][46]
-   `options` **[Object][44]** Config options that you would normally include in an [LP_API] action, such as `url` and `method`

### Examples

```javascript
export const REQ_FETCH_USERS = 'REQ_FETCH_USERS'

export const fetchUsers = requestWithKey(REQ_FETCH_USERS, {
  url: '/users'
})

fetchUsers()

// {
//   [LP_API]: {
//     url: '/users',
//     requestKey: 'REQ_FETCH_USERS',
//     requestAction: 'REQ_FETCH_USERS_REQUEST', 
//     successAction: 'REQ_FETCH_USERS_SUCCESS', 
//     failureAction: 'REQ_FETCH_USERS_FAILURE',
// }

*
```

Returns **[Object][44]** An [LP_API] action that can be handled by the lp-redux-api middleware.

## selectors

This library exports the following selectors for determining the status of requests:

-   `selectors.status(state, requestAction, [slice])`
-   `selectors.hasStatus(state, requestAction, [slice])`
-   `selectors.isLoading(state, requestAction, [slice])`
-   `selectors.isComplete(state, requestAction, [slice])`
-   `selectors.isSuccess(state, requestAction, [slice])`
-   `selectors.isFailure(state, requestAction, [slice])`

In order to work, the `lp-redux-api` reducer must be included in `combineReducers()`.
Selectors expect the reducer to be keyed under `'api'`- if a different key is used,
it must be passed as the optional `slice` parameter.

The status returned by `selectors.status()` can be one of the following exported constants:

-   `LP_API_STATUS_LOADING`: `'loading'`
-   `LP_API_STATUS_SUCCESS`: `'success'`
-   `LP_API_STATUS_FAILURE`: `'failure'`

### Examples

```javascript
// When creating store, attach reducer

import { reducer as apiReducer } from 'lp-redux-api'

combineReducers({ 
  api: apiReducer,
  ...
})

// Now you can keep track of request status elsewhere in your app

import { createRequest, selectors as apiSelectors } from 'lp-redux-api'

const fetchUsers = createRequest('FETCH_USERS', { url: '/users' })
dispatch(fetchUsers())

apiSelectors.status(state, fetchUsers) // -> 'loading'

*
```

## setFromRequest

A function that creates action handlers for actions generated by [requestWithKey][29].
These handlers set data at a path in the state from the response(s) of a given request.

If the request is successful, the data will be set at `<path>.success`.
If the request is unsuccessful, the data will be set at `<path>.failure`.

By default, setFromRequest creates handlers for `<requestKey>_SUCCESS` and `<requestKey>_FAILURE` action types.
You can override either of these handlers in your reducer by creating handlers explicitly.

### Parameters

-   `requestKey` **[String][41]** A unique key that references a request created by [requestWithKey][29]
-   `path` **[String][41]** A path (in dot notation) indicating where the data will be set in the state

### Examples

```javascript
const REQ_FETCH_USERS = 'REQ_FETCH_USERS'

 const initialState = {
  user: {
    data: null,
    error: null
  }
 }

export const reducer = (state=initialState, action) => {
  const handlers = {
    ...setFromRequest(REQ_FETCH_USERS, 'user')
  }
  const handler = handlers[action.type]
  if (!handler) return state
  return handler(state, action)
}

// On success, this call returns userData
const fetchUsers = requestWithKey(REQ_FETCH_USERS, { url: '/users' })

dispatch(fetchUsers()) 

// On success, new state will be:
// {
//    user: { success: userData }
// }

*
```

Returns **[Object][44]** A hash of action handlers that can be included in a reducer by using object spread syntax

## stubRequest

A function that creates action creators for making stubbed API requests.

Unlike [createRequest][21], these action creators do not make real API calls but rather
resolve immediately with the provided data.

### Parameters

-   `type` **[String][41]** A unique key that will be used to identify the request internally in redux
-   `dataDefinition` **([Object][44] \| [Function][40])** Data that the request will resolve with, or a function that returns data to resolve with.

### Examples

```javascript
export const fetchUser = stubRequest('FETCH_USER', (id) => ({ id }))

fetchUsers(5)
// -> won't make any api request, but will resolve with data { id: 5 }

// Just like in redux-actions, this action can be referenced in a reducer by name:

handleActions({
   [apiActions.fetchUser]: (state, action) => ...
})

*
```

Returns **[Function][40]** An action creator that passes its arguments to `dataDefinition` and makes the resulting stubbed API request.

[1]: #handlesuccess

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #handlefailure

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #examples-1

[7]: #handleresponse

[8]: #parameters-2

[9]: #examples-2

[10]: #setonsuccess

[11]: #parameters-3

[12]: #examples-3

[13]: #setonfailure

[14]: #parameters-4

[15]: #examples-4

[16]: #setonresponse

[17]: #parameters-5

[18]: #examples-5

[19]: #lp_api

[20]: #examples-6

[21]: #createrequest

[22]: #parameters-6

[23]: #examples-7

[24]: #middleware

[25]: #actions

[26]: #middleware-configuration

[27]: #reducer

[28]: #examples-8

[29]: #requestwithkey

[30]: #parameters-7

[31]: #examples-9

[32]: #selectors

[33]: #examples-10

[34]: #setfromrequest

[35]: #parameters-8

[36]: #examples-11

[37]: #stubrequest

[38]: #parameters-9

[39]: #examples-12

[40]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[41]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[42]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol

[43]: https://redux-actions.js.org/api-reference/createaction-s

[44]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[45]: https://github.com/LaunchPadLab/lp-requests/blob/master/docs.md#http

[46]: selectStatus
